I think I’m coming down with a cold.
The fish wasn’t cooked properly. And as soon as she ate it, she brought it up.
He smoked so much for so many years it was no surprise when his lungs packed up.
When he gets over the flu, he’ll go back to work.
The room was so hot and stuffy that he passed out.
He fainted but came round again after we opened a window and got some fresh air into the room.

How can one bring up his strength quickly after having a flu?
She’s had the flu and hasn’t eaten for days. She needs to build up her strength before she goes back to work.

patch someone up
When he cut himself on the broken glass, I patched him up before we took him to the hospital.

I put so much weight on over the last few months. What should I do to loose it quickly?

When do I need to cut out sweets from my diet?

Can giving up meat helps to improve my health?

What foods should I eat to fight off a cold?

Meaning: Become conscious
Example: When he came to, he was lying on the floor with his hands tied behind his back.
Pass out

Meaning: Faint, lose consciousness
Example: People everywhere were passing out from the heat.
Get over

Meaning: Recover from something
Example: It’s taken me ages to get over the flu.
Come down with

Meaning: Become sick (not seriously)
Example: I think I’m coming down with the flu.
Throw up


 
Meaning: Be sick, vomit
Example: The baby’s thrown up her dinner.
Come round

Meaning: Become conscious
Example: Your mother hasn’t yet come round from the anesthetic.
Work out

Meaning: Train the body by physical exercise
Example: I work out regularly to keep fit.
Warm up

Meaning: Begin a physical activity gradually
Example: It’s necessary to warm up before exercise to prevent injuries.
Block up

Meaning: Stop something from moving through something else
Example: My nose is blocked up.
Lay (Laid) up

Meaning: Unable to work, etc. because of an illness or injury
Example: She’s laid up with a broken leg.
Swell up

Meaning: Become large, inflated, or bulging
Example: The boy’s arm swelled up where the bee had stung him.
Clog up

Meaning: Become or cause to become obstructed
Example: High fat foods can clog up our arteries.
Dose up (UK)

Meaning: Give medicine to
Example: You should dose up with vitamin C to fight colds off.
Lay low

Meaning: Render someone unable to move or leave their bed
Example: The flu usually lays people low for five to ten days.
Let up

Meaning: Become less strong or stop
Example: A cold continues at its peak for several days, then it gradually let up.
Shake off

What could cause caughing up blood?

 
I didn’t sleep very well as I was throwing up all night.

 
Pull through – To recover from a serious illness or injury: Helen is very sick at the moment, but I’m sure she’ll pull through.

My arms broke out in a rash after taking the medication.

The medication I'm taking is wearing me out. 

What causes your face to be puffed up?

How long does a cold normally needs to clear up?

My allergies seems to have gone away, should I stop taking the medication?

Flare up – If a disease or medical condition flares up, it suddenly returns or becomes painful again: The pupil’s acne flared up during the exam period.

 


 
Burn up – if you are burning up, it means you are very hot, often because of fever: I’m taking Emma to the doctor. She’s been sick and she’s burning up now.
Burn out – To ruin your health or become completely exhausted through overwork: All work and no play can eventually burn you out.
Pack up – when a part of your body stops working: After years of smoking his lungs packed up.
Pick up – To catch a disease: I think Johnny picked up the virus at school.
Shake off – To recover from an illness: Some people manage to shake off the flu in just a few days.